---
sidebar_position: 0
---

# Overview

`re_data overview` cli command is used to generate & serve reliability UI. 

### generate
```
re_data overview generate --start-date 2021-01-01 --end-date 2021-01-30 --interval days:1
```

Generates overview as HTML and JSON files and saves by default in the target folder specified in the dbt project. 

Supported arguments:
- start-date (*default: today - 7 days*) - start date of period for which you generate overview
- end-date (*default: today*) - end date of period for which you generate overview
- interval (*default: days:1*) - basic time grain for the overview, supported values - *days*, *hours*, example: **days:7**, **hours:1**.
- re-data-target-dir - directory to store artefacts generated by re_data. Defaults to the 'target-path' used in dbt_project.yml.
- profile - Which profile to load. Overrides setting in dbt_project.yml.
- target - Which target to load for the given profile.
- project-dir - Which directory to look in for the dbt_project.yml file. Default is the current working directory and its parents.
- profiles-dir - Which directory to look in for the profiles.yml file. Default = ~/.dbt.

For this command to generate HTLL/JSON with data, you need to have already re_data models for chosen dates/intervals in your data warehouse. `re_data run` command or just bare `dbt run` for re_data package (can be called in your dbt Cloud env) are command to use for that.
### serve

```
re_data overview serve
```

Starts simple python server that serves HTML/JSON files generated & opens your browser 😊

Supported arguments:
- re-data-target-dir - directory serve files generated by re_data. Defaults to the 'target-path' used in dbt_project.yml.
- project-dir - Which directory to look in for the dbt_project.yml file. Default is the current working directory and its parents.
- port - Specify the port number for the UI server. Default is 8085.
